SaaS with upsell
"""
Our company provides a healthy habits app that helps people make simple changes in their lives to improve their health and wellbeing.

We acquire most customers through social media advertising, principally Facebook and Instagram ads.
Most customers join in Q1, then fairly steady for the rest of the year.
Customers can choose from three tiers of subscription, Free, Boosted, Unlimited.
They pay monthly and are not locked in, so some churn each month.
We also sell supplements, and a small % of active customers buy them each month.
Customers who order them typically buy 2 packs each time.
We keep a small stock of supplements as supplier lead times can be over a month, and pay a monthly fee for the storage space.

We pay for packing and shipping each supplement order.
We have to pay app store fees which are a % of subscriber revenues.
Our hosting and inference costs grow with active users.

I have a small team of developers, a head of marketing, someone to order and ship supplements, CFO and me (CEO).

We rent serviced office space that includes everything we need, and scales with our total number of staff.
Not many other costs, insurance, travel and software subscriptions (which vary with headcount) come to mind.

The company provides laptops and mobile phones for every member of staff.
We didn't need to buy furniture or monitors as those were provided by our serviced office.
I bought a label printer, and barcode scanner for the supplements fulfilment work.
"""

Brick & Mortar physical Stores
"""
We have a single clothing store on the highstreet, focused on selling casual & athletic clothing to our Gen Z customers. I don't sell online as I had too many returns when I tried that.
It's going well, and I want to add a small number of new stores over the next couple of years in nearby towns.
My current store gets about 1000 visitors each week, and would hope new stores would ramp up to a similar level within a year of opening.
New stores should be a similar format and size, but I would need flexibility to model different setup costs and long term footfall for each location.
I will rent each location, and cover utility costs and insurance. I will also have to pay to fitout and decorate each new store, and install till equipment and scanners for inventory management.

I have two distinct seasons, summer and winter, with a different product range for each. I place large orders months in advance that cover the expected sales for each season.
I have storage space in my current store, but anticipate handling the new ones from a central warehouse that I would rent, and also have to fit out and equip.

I need the equivalent of 3 full time staff per store as they work shifts. 1 manager (full time) and 2 part time (although that can be 5+ actual people).

We don't have a head office as I do all the admin from my home. I might need help with bookkeeping going forward, and may hire someone to help with supply chain.

I spend a little on local advertising for my current store each month, so would do the same for each new locations too. I would also invest in some one-off launch marketing and a launch event when I open new ones.
"""

Early Ecommerce
"""
A family run company selling lamps & lamp shades through my Etsy store.
I attract customers through my instagram profile, and pay for some Facebook ads.

Currently I only have 2 lamp designs (both large), but let's model large, medium and small categories.
I make the lamp shades myself on 3d printers. I will need to invest in more printers if volumes grow as I am currently limited to around 50 shades per month.
The different sizes of lamps will each consume different amounts of filament, but will all have the same electricals.
Printer capacity is determined by Kg of filament used, as that drives printing time.

I also buy the sockets, cables and plugs from china, one of each per lamp. I assemble them myself.
The shades are shipped in a strong cardboard box, a different size for each category.

I run the business from home, so only my partner and I work in it.
Other than the parts and packaging, our other costs are advertising, shipping, electricity, printer maintenance.
I can charge the costs of my home office and workshop to the business.
"""

Numberly Financial models
"""
We have a company called Numberly building financial models for startups.
We acquire clients through Upwork and Google Ads.
Upwork charges 10% of revenues, and we pay per click for google visitors.
We have an agency handling our marketing on G-ads who charge a fixed fee per month.
A dedicated employee bids on upwork jobs.

Each new client incurs a small inference cost for an AI to interview them about their business and to generate a draft model design.

We employ people to check those designs, turn them into financial models, and to provide a follow up call or video for the client.
Each of those activities takes a certain number of hours.
That modelling team will need to grow with the total number of hours required to handle clients.
Clients pay a one-off fee for their initial model (after a short delay)

We retain clients beyond their first model, and each month a small percentage will buy some hours of advice.
These calls are also handled by a team of people that will grow with hours demanded.

There is a small management team of 2 founders, an assistant, the UW booking person mentioned above.
Overheads include bookkeeping, accounting, insurance, office consumables.

We provide laptops for each employee, but do not need office space as everyone works remotely.
"""